---
title: "Estimation of the fluorescence lifetime for optically inaccessible exciplexes in nonpolar solutions under ionizing irradiation"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2016-04-21-paper-26
excerpt: 'In this paper, we present a simple and universal experimental approach for the estimation of fluorescence lifetimes of X-radiation generated exciplexes'
date: 2016-04-21
venue: 'Photochemical Photobiological Sciences'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1039/C6PP00033A'
bibtexurl: 'http://anatoly1010.github.io/files/bibtex26.bib'
citation: 'Melnikov A.R., Kalneus E.V., Korolev V.V., Sherin P.S., Borovkov V.I., Stass D.V. &quot;Estimation of the fluorescence lifetime for optically inaccessible exciplexes in nonpolar solutions under ionizing irradiation&quot; <i>Photochem. Photobiol. Sci.</i> 2016. 15(6). P. 767-778.'
---
X-irradiation of nonpolar solutions likely provides a possibility to create exciplexes for any donor–acceptor pair that would energetically and sterically allow this. Thorough study and characterization of X-radiation generated exciplexes usually cannot be carried out with conventional methods because of the complex and non-exponential formation and decay dynamics of these species. In this paper, we present a simple and universal experimental approach for the estimation of fluorescence lifetimes (τ<sub>F</sub>) of X-radiation generated exciplexes. The suggested procedure is based on the comparison of quenching of the exciplex emission band and the emission band from a standard luminophore with a known excited state lifetime by dissolved oxygen. Using this approach we report the τ<sub>F</sub> values for two systems with optically inaccessible exciplexes, diphenylacetylene–N,N-dimethylaniline (DMA) and p-terphenyl–DMA, and for two typical exciplex forming systems, naphthalene–DMA and anthracene–DMA. All the found τ<sub>F</sub> values for the X-radiation generated exciplexes lie in the range of 50–70 ns. The accuracy of this approach was checked by time-resolved measurements under X- or near-UV irradiation for those pairs, whose properties make this feasible. The proposed method gives a possibility to avoid a complex numerical evaluation of the non-exponential kinetics of recombination luminescence, and can be used to estimate the characteristic τ<sub>F</sub> values for luminophores and excited complexes formed under X-radiation.