---
title: "The Radiation Beamline of Novosibirsk Free-Electron Laser Facility Operating in Terahertz, Far-Infrared, and Mid-Infrared Ranges"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2020-07-17-paper-16
excerpt: 'In this work, we describe the 120-m beamline for transporting the radiation of the Novosibirsk FEL facility, consisting of three FELs of the terahertz (THz), far-infrared, and mid-infrared ranges'
date: 2020-07-17
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Terahertz Science and Technology'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1109/TTHZ.2020.3010046'
bibtexurl: 'http://anatoly1010.github.io/files/bibtex16.bib'
citation: 'Kubarev V.V., Sozinov G.I., Scheglov M.A., Vodopyanov A.V., Sidorov A.V., Melnikov A.R., Veber S.L. &quot;The Radiation Beamline of Novosibirsk Free-Electron Laser Facility Operating in Terahertz, Far-Infrared, and Mid-Infrared Ranges.&quot; <i>IEEE Trans. Terahertz Sci. Technol.</i> 2020. 10(6). P. 634-646.'
---
Unlike synchrotrons with multiple beamlines, free-electron lasers (FELs) are single-beam facilities, which nevertheless have a number of endstations. The latter requires development of complex radiation transport line, which should be efficient enough to avoid scaling down the FEL capabilities. Keeping the beam shape and radiation power level along the beamline is a challenge because the total length of the FEL radiation transport line can exceed a hundred meters. The FELs around the world differ from each other in both radiation parameters and endstations' layout requiring individual design of their radiation transport lines. In this work, we describe the 120-m beamline for transporting the radiation of the Novosibirsk FEL facility, consisting of three FELs of the terahertz (THz), far-infrared, and mid-infrared ranges. The radiation of these three FELs is directed to the same beam transport channel, which is able to deliver the radiation to any of 14 endstations already commissioned. To compare the expected beam parameters with the actual ones, the radiation intensity distribution was measured in a number of places of the beamline that are THz radiation outputs for some endstations. Possible causes of the parameters' mismatching observed for distant endstations are discussed. The problem of radiation absorption by water vapor is considered in detail.