---
title: "Application of Pyroelectric Sensors Based on PVDF Films for EPR Spectra Detection by Heat Release"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2021-12-15-paper-12
excerpt: 'This paper presents the use pyroelectric film sensors for detecting EPR signals'
date: 2021-12-15
venue: 'Sensors'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.3390/s21248426'
bibtexurl: 'http://anatoly1010.github.io/files/bibtex12.bib'
citation: 'Melnikov A.R., Zikirin S.B., Kalneus E.V., Ivannikov V.I., Grishin Y.A., Anisimov O.A. &quot;Application of Pyroelectric Sensors Based on PVDF Films for EPR Spectra Detection by Heat Release.&quot; <i>Sensors</i>. 2021. 21(24). Art. Num. 8426.'
---
Pyroelectrics are a wide class of materials that change their polarization when the system temperature varies. This effect is utilized for a number of different commercial and industrial applications ranging from simple thermal sensors and laser interferometers to water vapor harvesting. Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy is a powerful tool for studying the structure and dynamics of materials with unpaired electrons. Since heating accompanies a resonant change of the orientation of electron spins in an external magnetic field, pyroelectrics can be utilized as versatile detectors for so-called indirect detection of the EPR signal. In this work, we investigated three different types of PVDF (polyvinylidene difluoride) standard pyroelectric films with indium tin oxide, Cu/Ni, and Au coatings to determine their sensitivity for detecting EPR signals. All the films were shown to be able to detect the EPR spectra of about 1 μg of a standard stable free radical by heat release. A comparative study based on the calculation of the noise-equivalent power and specific detectivity from experimental spectra showed that the Au coated PVDF film is the most promising active element for measuring the EPR signal. Using the best achieved sensitivity, estimation is given whether this is sufficient for using a PVDF-based pyrodetector for indirectly detecting EPR spectra by recombination heat release or not.