---
title: "A broadband pulse EPR spectrometer for high-throughput measurements in the X-band"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2022-12-27-paper-4
excerpt: 'This paper describes a homemade X-band pulsed EPR spectrometer'
date: 2022-12-27
venue: 'Journal of Magnetic Resonance Open'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmro.2022.100092'
bibtexurl: 'http://anatoly1010.github.io/files/bibtex4.bib'
citation: 'Isaev N.P., Melnikov A.R., Lomanovich K.A., Dugin M.V., Ivanov M.Y., Polovyanenko D.N., Veber S.L., Bowman M.K., Bagryanskaya E.G. &quot;A broadband pulse EPR spectrometer for high-throughput measurements in the X-band.&quot; <i>J. Magn. Res. Open</i>. 2022. 14-15. Art. Num. 100092.'
---
We present an X-band pulse EPR spectrometer with high throughput and excellent sensitivity in the 8.5-11.5 GHz range. It is designed for high stability and low noise Fourier Transform measurements for applications in pulse dipolar spectroscopy, pulse hyperfine spectroscopy, and spin relaxation from cryogenic temperatures to room temperature. An arbitrary waveform generator is used to generate pulses of any frequency and shape for multiple resonance experiments or for uniform broadband excitation with bandwidths exceeding 350 MHz. We illustrate the capabilities and performance of the spectrometer by measurements on free radicals and biradicals in solids and liquids. Relaxation times of radicals in liquid solution are measured for fewer than 30,000,000 spins (less than 3 nanomoles per liter). Non-uniform acquisition provides higher throughput for mixtures of radicals with quite different relaxation rates. Conventional DEER measurements on a rigid biradical have good modulation depth. Broadband SIFTER with chirped adiabatic WURST pulses demonstrates versatility for the latest broadband pulse schemes. A broadband ESEEM measurement correlates ESEEM and EPR frequencies which characterize the conformation of a nitroxide radical. The entire EPR spectrum with a width approaching 300 MHz was excited and detected throughout the measurement. The spectrometer supports the operator in tuning, setting up experiments and monitoring their progress so that even novice users consistently can obtain optimal results.