---
title: "Comparative Study of Single Crystal and Polymeric Pyroelectric Detectors in the 0.9–2.0 THz Range Using Monochromatic Laser Radiation of the NovoFEL"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-10-03-paper-10
excerpt: 'This work compares the performance of six different detectors, based on either LaTiO3 crystal or different polymeric films, using monochromatic radiation of the Novosibirsk Free Electron Laser facility (NovoFEL) in the frequency range of 0.9–2.0 THz'
date: 2023-10-03
venue: 'Polymers'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.3390/polym15204124'
bibtexurl: 'http://anatoly1010.github.io/files/bibtex10.bib'
citation: 'Melnikov  A.R., Kalneus E.V., Getmanov Y.V., Shevchenko D.A., Gerasimov V.V., Anisimov O.A., Fedin M.V., Veber S.L. &quot;Comparative Study of Single Crystal and Polymeric Pyroelectric Detectors in the 0.9–2.0 THz Range Using Monochromatic Laser Radiation of the NovoFEL.&quot; <i>Polymers</i>. 2023. 15(20). Art. Num. 4124.'
---
The development of efficient and reliable sensors operating at room temperature is essential to advance the application of terahertz (THz) science and technology. Pyroelectric THz detectors are among the best candidates, taking into account their variety, outstanding performance, ease of fabrication, and robustness. In this work, we compare the performance of six different detectors, based on either LaTiO<sub>3</sub> crystal or different polymeric films, using monochromatic radiation of the Novosibirsk Free Electron Laser facility (NovoFEL) in the frequency range of 0.9–2.0 THz. The main characteristics, including noise equivalent power and frequency response, were determined for all of them. Possible reasons for the differences in the obtained characteristics are discussed on the basis of the main physicochemical characteristics and optical properties of the sensitive area. At least three detectors showed sufficient sensitivity to monitor the shape and duration of the THz macropulses utilizing only a small fraction of the THz radiation from the primary beam. This capability is crucial for accurate characterization of THz radiation during the main experiment at various specialized endstations at synchrotrons and free electron lasers. As an example of such characterization, the typical stability of the average NovoFEL radiation power at the beamline of the electron paramagnetic resonance endstation was investigated.