---
title: "Inductive detection of temperature-induced magnetization dynamics of molecular spin systems "
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-06-10-paper-5
excerpt: 'In this paper, we propose an inductive detection of temperature-induced magnetization dynamics as applied to the study of molecular spin systems and describe the general design and construction of an induction probehead'
date: 2024-06-10
venue: 'The Journal of Chemical Physics'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0211936'
bibtexurl: 'http://anatoly1010.github.io/files/bibtex5.bib'
citation: 'Melnikov A.R., Ivanov M.Y., Samsonenko A.A., Getmanov Y.V., Nikovskiy I.A., Matiukhina A.K., Zorina-Tikhonova E.N., Voronina J.K., Goloveshkin A.S., Babeshkin K.A., Efimov N.N., Kiskin M.A., Eremenko I.L., Fedin M.V., Veber S.L. &quot;Inductive detection of temperature-induced magnetization dynamics of molecular spin systems .&quot; <i>J. Chem. Phys.</i>. 2024. 160(22). Art. Num. 224201.'
---
The development and technological applications of molecular spin systems require versatile experimental techniques to characterize and control their static and dynamic magnetic properties. In the latter case, bulk spectroscopic and magnetometric techniques, such as AC magnetometry and pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance, are usually employed, showing high sensitivity, wide dynamic range, and flexibility. They are based on creating a nonequilibrium state either by changing the magnetic field or by applying resonant microwave radiation. Another possible source of perturbation is a laser pulse that rapidly heats the sample. This approach has proven to be one of the most useful techniques for studying the kinetics and mechanism of chemical and biochemical reactions. Inspired by these works, we propose an inductive detection of temperature-induced magnetization dynamics as applied to the study of molecular spin systems and describe the general design and construction of a particular induction probehead, taking into account the constraints imposed by the cryostat and electromagnet. To evaluate the performance, several coordination compounds of VO^2+^, Co^2+^, and Dy^3+^ were investigated using low-energy pulses of a terahertz free electron laser of the Novosibirsk free electron laser facility as a heat source. All measured magnetization dynamics were qualitatively or quantitatively described using a proposed basic theoretical model and compared with the data obtained by alternating current magnetometry. Based on the results of the research, the possible scope of applications of inductive detection and its advantages and disadvantages in comparison with standard methods are discussed.