---
title: "Temperature Dependence of the Sensitivity of PVDF Pyroelectric Sensors to THz Radiation: Towards Cryogenic Applications"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-09-06-paper-2
excerpt: 'We characterized the performance of the PVDF sensor at helium temperatures.'
date: 2024-09-06
venue: 'Sensors'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.3390/s24175808'
bibtexurl: 'http://anatoly1010.github.io/files/bibtex2.bib'
citation: 'Sinelnikov A.N., Melnikov A.R., Getmanov Y.V., Kolomeec D.A., Kalneus E.V., Fedin M.V., Veber S.L. &quot;Temperature Dependence of the Sensitivity of PVDF Pyroelectric Sensors to THz Radiation: Towards Cryogenic Applications.&quot; <i>Sensors</i>. 2024. 24. Art. Num. 5808.'
---
The application of terahertz (THz) science in industrial technology and scientific research requires efficient THz detectors. Such detectors should be able to operate under various external conditions and conform to existing geometric constraints in the required application. Pyroelectric THz detectors are among the best candidates. This is due to their versatility, outstanding performance, ease of fabrication, and robustness. In this paper, we propose a compact pyroelectric detector based on a bioriented poled polyvinylidene difluoride film coated with sputtered metal electrodes for in situ absorption measurement at cryogenic temperature. The detector design was optimized for the registration system of the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) endstation of the Novosibirsk Free Electron Laser facility. Measurements of the detector response to pulsed THz radiation at different temperatures and electrode materials showed that the response varies with both the temperature and the type of electrode material used. The maximum signal level corresponds to the temperature range of 10–40 K, in which the pyroelectric coefficient of the PVDF film also has a maximum value. Among the three coatings studied, namely indium tin oxide (ITO), Au, and Cu/Ni, the latter has the highest increase in sensitivity at low temperature. The possibility of using the detectors for in situ absorption measurement was exemplified using two typical molecular spin systems, which exhibited a transparency of 20–30% at 76.9 cm−1 and 5 K. Such measurements, carried out directly in the cryostat with the main recording system and sample fully configured, allow precise control of the THz radiation parameters at the EPR endstation.
